The Linux distribution I have chosen is Arch Linux which, even among other Linux Distributions is known for its unique, minimaltic approach. The entire philosophy could be summarised in: "Make it as simple as possible for a user to achieve any task". Note that simple does not mean easy. Tasks such as partitioning a drive, or even installing the system can be done in a few terminal commands. But the syntax of these commands is not immediately obvious for a naive end-user and require a bit of pre-knowledge. True, Windows provides a GUI and makes it "easy" to do certain things. However, there still is the frustration faced by the power users as they too have to use the same "user-friendly" tools to achieve the task, which adds a lot of steps to what is a one-step process in Linux.

It is not that Arch Linux does not provide user-friendly interfaces or that one has to buy a fat book to learn how to use it. It is simply that everything is in the hands of the user. If he wants to use the GUI version of a hard disk partitioning tool, he simply has to type "pacman -S gparted" instead of "pacman -S parted". In a lot of ways, this is at the core of UNIX philosophy; "Modularity" and "Doing one thing well", but Arch takes it much further than other distributions. Ubuntu installs a lot of unnececssary default packages. Arch only installs exactly what the user asks for along with its dependencies, keeping it as minimal as possible. Of course, there is no need to compare this with Windows where the installation of a software is a huge headache, as it is never entirely clear what it needs to make it run, and whether it needs the "Visual C++ Redistributable 2008 Update 1" or the Update 2 as there is no centralised repository of packages and programs are usually packaged and sold by individual companies. This also means that we need to have different "Updater" tools which check for updates for each different software. Compare this to Arch, where updating all your apps is as simple as excuting "pacman -Syu" on a command line. Thus, for the computer to reach a "Usable" state, where Usable means that the user can actually use the computer for whatever he wants to do, it is much faster and simpler on Arch Linux.
